# Hop
Hop is a fun and simple way to discover interesting groups of people to hangout with

The backend of the project involved the following three main parts. First is the group recommendations based on user profile, where we developed an efficient working algorithm which would match groups which have the most similar interests to the user profile and the interests/hashtags that the user is interested in. We tried to use Watson to help us in our recommendation algorithms but we faced a lot of issues and hence developed a inhouse algorithm.

Second is the use of spatial indexing and searching to find places close by to the peoples location. This was done by using Apache Lucene which helped index the hashtags and location of groups to return relevant results to the user.

And third is the creation of the REST Api for the mobile app to access the results generated by these. Facebook API played a big role in helping us gather social information about the user. 

The project involved sourcing lot of places data from different sources and then finding the best match for the person. The API which we used for this was the Mashape Seatgeek events suggestion which sourced real time events based on location that are currently happening from 60 different sources which helped users to find new locations for hanging out and meet new people on the fly.

Further Api integrations which we tried to include was the use of respoke chat application and pebble notification systems to help notify people about different groups and new members in the group.

The project was hosted on Linode with MySQL as the primary database server and JAVA as the backend development tool. The front end of the application is a IOS app which users can join through their facebook accounts. We hosted the app by creating a war file and hosted it in Linode. Linode helped us save a lot of time as it helped us host the project easily.

We tested the application with 30 different users and created around 70 events in the span of 36 hours which showed the potential and scalability of the application.

Future scope is development of an Android app and Windows mobile app for Hop using the same rest services and thus make it cross platform and more user friendly. We also had an idea of integrating DirecTv in the app by users creating tv show marathon groups and people could join in this activity and DirecTV could also show groups like these around the area.

The front end of the code is at https://github.com/jazzTheJackRabbit/lahacks-hop
